---
layout: post
title: "Default Constructors in C++"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-23
tags: [Constructors]
comments: true
share: true
---

When working with C++, constructors play a vital role in initializing objects. A constructor is a special member function that gets called automatically when we create an object of a class. It is responsible for initializing the data members of the object.

In C++, a default constructor is a constructor that takes no arguments. It is used to initialize the object when no specific values are provided. If no constructor is defined explicitly or the default constructor is defined, the compiler automatically generates a default constructor.

## Syntax of Default Constructor

```cpp
class MyClass {
public:
    MyClass() {
        // constructor code here
    }
};
```

The default constructor does not take any arguments and does not return any value. It is commonly used to initialize the data members to their default values.

## Calling Default Constructor

The default constructor is called automatically when an object of a class is created. For example:

```cpp
MyClass obj; // Default constructor called
```

## Custom Default Constructor

In some cases, you may want a default constructor with some specific behavior. For instance, you may want to set some default values to the data members. In such cases, you can define a custom default constructor.

```cpp
class MyClass {
private:
    int num;
    float value;
public:
    MyClass() {
        num = 10;
        value = 3.14;
    }
};
```

In the above example, a custom default constructor is defined for the class `MyClass`. It initializes the `num` member to 10 and `value` member to 3.14 by default.

## Conclusion

Default constructors in C++ provide a way to initialize objects when no specific values are provided. They are automatically generated by the compiler if not explicitly defined. Custom default constructors can also be defined to initialize the data members to specific default values. Understanding and using default constructors is essential when working with object initialization in C++. 

#Cpp #Constructors